OpenQuest (ScummC version)


I. What is this?

This is a ScummC port of Michael Sheail's demo adventure game "OpenQuest".
This ScummC version of the game is compiled to Scumm bytecode and thus runs
in ScummVM.

The game binaries and sources are provided under the GNU General Public
License, Version 2, or later. The images, sounds, dialogs and the story of
the game are copyright of Michael Sheail. Additional contributions and
modifications as well as the ScummC code are copyright of their respective
authors.


II. How to run the game

To play the game, start ScummVM, choose "Add Game..." and point to the "bin"
folder. The game will be recognized as "Day of the Tentacle". Change the
name to "OpenQuest" if you want. You can then press "Start" to play the game.

(The masking as "Day of the Tentacle" is necessary, because ScummVM doesn't
currently support detection of ScummC games and has to be patched to recognize
them. Patches for several versions are available with the ScummC source code.)


III. How to compile the game

To compile the game from source, you need to download the sources for ScummC
and compile them. OpenQuest is already included with ScummC, otherwise you'd
have to copy the "openquest" source folder into the ScummC "examples" folder.
You can now cd into the "openquest" folder and type "make" to compile the game.
To mask the game as "Day of the Tentacle", change the Makefile to use the SLD
parameters "-o tentacle -key 0x69", as specified in the ScummC README.


IV. Help needed!

If you like, play the original AGS version of OpenQuest and compare the two.
You will see that much work still remains to be done for the ScummC version.
If you are a programmer who likes adventure games, or if you are a SCUMM
expert, please consider contributing to the game code or the ScummC compiler
itself, to help making the dream of a free SCUMM compiler and many free SCUMM
games come true!


V. Download links and resources

ScummVM is available for download at the scummvm.org website:
http://www.scummvm.org/downloads.php

The ScummC compiler and tool suite can be obtained from the ScummC SVN
repository:
https://dotsec.net/repos/scummc

More information about ScummC can be found on the ScummC website:
http://alban.dotsec.net/Projects/ScummC

You can download Michael Sheail's original AGS version of OpenQuest here:
http://new.bigbluecup.com/games.php?action=detail&id=945
or here:
http://alban.dotsec.net/data/OpenQuest.zip
